README.md, before:

<center><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/khairullahhamsafar/portfolio_prjects/main/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis/img/Data_Scientists_Salaries_02.png"></center>

# Data Scientists Salaries Trends in Global Industries 2021-23 &#128202; &#128176;
# End-to-End Data Analysis Project from Scratch &#128293; &#128153;

<br/>

Welcome to the Data Scientists Salaries Trends project! This comprehensive data analysis project explores salary trends in the field of Data Science from 2021 to 2023 on a global scale. The project covers various aspects of employment, including work experience, job titles, company locations, and more.

## Project Overview

- **Objective**: The main aim of this project is to analyze and visualize Data Science professionals salaries trends in global industries.
- **Dataset**: The Dataset I used is available on [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/harishkumardatalab/data-science-salary-2021-to-2023). For more information regarding data and its features etc, visit [here](https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/portfolio_prjects/blob/main/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis_main.ipynb?#1.1).
- **Tools and Technologies**: Anaconda/JupyterLab/Jupyter, Python, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, Matplotlib, Seaborn, and Warnings.
- **Project Type**: End-to-End Data Analysis and Visuzalization Project from Scratch.

## Key Features

- **Visualizations**: Engaging visual representations of salary trends, company size impact, experience level variations, and more.
- **Insights Extraction**: Extracted valuable insights from the data, including salary distributions, top-paying job titles, and regional variations.

## Project Structure

- **Notebooks**: [Jupyter Notebook Link.](https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/portfolio_prjects/blob/main/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis_main.ipynb)
- **Data**: Dataset is available [here](https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/portfolio_prjects/blob/main/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis/Datasets/Data_Science_Professionals_Salaries_Data_2021_to_2023.csv).
- **Reports**: Report/Findings are included in the [Notebook](https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/portfolio_prjects/blob/main/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis_main.ipynb?#6.1).

## Project License

![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MITLicense-brightorange)

## How to Run

There are main two ways through which you can run this project:
- Download the notebook file and dataset  by cloning repo to your local machine, and run it by using Anaconda or JupyterLab etc.
- Directly run the project notebook using Kaggle. If you want to run it and observe live, please visit my [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/code/khairullahhamsafar/data-scientists-salary-trends-in-global-industries) profile.

### Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/portfolio_prjects.git

### Navigate to the project directory
cd portfolio_prjects/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis

### Install dependencies (if any)
pip install -r requirements.txt

### Run the main analysis notebook
[Data Scientists Salaries Analysis](https://localhost:8888/notebooks/portfolio_prjects/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis/Data_Scientists_Salaries_Analysis_main.ipynb)

Commit message:

Updating README.md file.
Updating README.md file of Hotels Booking Data Analysis for Investigating Higher Cancellation Rate project with it's current info's.

README.md, after:

<center><img src="https://raw.github.com/khairullahhamsafar/portfolio_prjects/main/Investigating_High_Cancellation_Rate_in_Hotels/img/hotal_banner_01.jpg"></center>

# Hotel Bookings Analysis: Understanding Cancellation Trends 🏨 &#128202; &#128176;
# Data-driven Analysis to Counteract High Cancellation Rates 📊 &#128293; 

<br/>

Welcome to the Hotel Bookings Analysis project! This in-depth data analysis project delves into the trends of hotel booking cancellations, focusing on strategies to counteract high cancellation rates. The project utilizes a dataset collected from Mustafa's Kaggle profile, covering hotel reservations from July 1, 2015, to August 31, 2017, with observations from both City Hotels and Resort Hotels.

## Project Overview

- **Objective**: The primary goal is to provide comprehensive insights into factors influencing hotel booking cancellations and suggest data-driven decisions for mitigating the issue.
- **Dataset**: The dataset used in this analysis is sourced from [Mustafa's Kaggle profile](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mojtaba142/hotel-booking/data). For detailed information about the data and its features, please refer to [my Kaggle profile](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/khairullahhamsafar/hotels-booking-data-cleaned-version).
- **Tools and Technologies**: Anaconda/JupyterLab/Jupyter, Python, Pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, and Seaborn.
- **Project Type**: End-to-End Data Analysis and Visualization Project.

## Key Features

- **Visualizations**: Engaging visual representations of cancellation rates, monthly trends, pricing impact, and regional variations.
- **Insights Extraction**: Extracted valuable insights related to cancellation ratios, pricing impact, market segment analysis, and more.

## Project Structure

- **Notebooks**: [Jupyter Notebook Link.](https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/Hotels_Booking_Data_Analysis_for_Investigating_Higher_Cancellation_Rate/blob/main/Investigating_High_Cancellation_Rate_in_Hotels.ipynb)
- **Data**: Dataset is available [here](https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/Hotels_Booking_Data_Analysis_for_Investigating_Higher_Cancellation_Rate/blob/main/Dataset/hotel_booking_data_cleaned.csv).
- **Insights**: Findings and insights are included in the [Notebook](https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/Hotels_Booking_Data_Analysis_for_Investigating_Higher_Cancellation_Rate/blob/main/Investigating_High_Cancellation_Rate_in_Hotels.ipynb?#6).
- **Reports**: Suggested Data-driven Decisions are included in the [Notebook](https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/Hotels_Booking_Data_Analysis_for_Investigating_Higher_Cancellation_Rate/blob/main/Investigating_High_Cancellation_Rate_in_Hotels.ipynb?#7).

## Project License

![badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MITLicense-brightorange)

## How to Run

There are two main ways through which you can run this project:
- Download the notebook file and dataset by cloning the repo to your local machine, and run it using Anaconda or JupyterLab.
- Directly run the project notebook using Kaggle. For a live experience, please visit my [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mojtaba142/hotel-booking/data) profile.

### Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/khairullahhamsafar/Hotels_Booking_Data_Analysis_for_Investigating_Higher_Cancellation_Rate.git

### Navigate to the project directory
cd Hotels_Booking_Data_Analysis_for_Investigating_Higher_Cancellation_Rate

### Install dependencies (if any)
pip install -r requirements.txt

### Run the main analysis notebook
[Hotel Bookings Analysis](https://localhost:8888/notebooks/Hotels_Booking_Data_Analysis_for_Investigating_Higher_Cancellation_Rate/blob/main/Investigating_High_Cancellation_Rate_in_Hotels.ipynb)
